Focusing on learning over grades for a class is an important topic for me. In my recent classes, I've definitely noticed a shift in what my Professors expect from me. Whether they have done less formal tests, or now have us work on something like a portfolio to create a culminating experience, there is less emphasis on grades.

As a math major, most of what I've seen from this is in my math classes. I've had about four or so classes that focus less on grades. One Professor called the process "Ungrading." We didn't have quizzes or exams in the classes, even if I think they could have fit well. Instead for the semester we worked on assignments and projects and culminated them into a final project. The project could have been a portfolio that showcased all the work a final presentation, or something similar. I suppose this class is like that in those regards, as it has the big project. 

From my experience with these past classes, I can really understand why Alfie Kohn writes that "Grades tend to reduce the quality of students’ thinking" as we want things to be easy, and focus on getting the highest greade with the least work. So we want to do things like skim readings, which diminishes true learning. The point that the easiest way is rational was a point that really resonated with me. I find that I sometimes just try to do the bare minimum for success, instead of putting in a good effort.

Before I begin working on a class or assignment, I find it hard to be motivated. Grades do provide me with a good amount of motivation to work hard in school, but they don't get me excited to learn. However, actually being in a class can motivate me to learn a lot if I think the topic is interesting. In math classes I've really liked exploring fractals, and learning cool things for coding in Python. For this class, I'm motivated to learn a new programming language in R that I can add to my toolbelt, and seeing what kind of new possibilities I can explore with it.

Kohn brings up extrinsic versus intrinsic motivation in his article. I think it's rather hard to seperate the two, but something that should be done nonetheless. I think that being motivated to learn is a much better goal than mearly motivated for a better grade. This also leads to more fufilling achievements and engagement, as learning would be it's own reward, and a good goal is the desire to learn.
